# Assignment 2: Design Principles

# Working on Assignment

<video src="https://archive.org/download/jhu-oose/oose--assignments--2.mp4" controls preload="none"></video>

# OLID

<small>
**60 points (15 points per principle)**
</small>

[In lecture](/lectures/2) we covered the **S** from **SOLID**. In your own words, explain the other four principles, **OLID**. Include an example in the explanation of each principle. Prefer examples extracted from TODOOSE, either because TODOOSE follows the principle, or because TODOOSE violates it. Examples may be class diagrams, code, or both. Discuss under which conditions you’d follow the principle, and under which conditions you wouldn’t.

# Technology

**⚠️  In this part of the assignment you’re going to work on the [TODOOSE code base](https://github.com/jhu-oose/todoose). Don’t Fork that repository on GitHub! Otherwise there’s a high probability that you’ll end up pushing your answers for the whole world to see, which violates the [Academic Integrity](/policies#academic-integrity) policy. Work on the version of the code base you cloned by following the steps from [Assignment 0](/assignments/0).**

Let’s explore some design principles in practice.

## Add an Abstraction

<small>
**20 points**
</small>

The JSON response produced by the [`getAll` action in the `ItemsController`](https://github.com/jhu-oose/todoose/blob/90ca0901e09095460845eae20218bc5189bec565/src/main/java/com/jhuoose/todoose/controllers/ItemsController.java#L17) relies on the internal representation of the [`Item`](https://github.com/jhu-oose/todoose/blob/90ca0901e09095460845eae20218bc5189bec565/src/main/java/com/jhuoose/todoose/models/Item.java) model: the model includes the attributes `identifier` and `description`, so the JSON response looks like `{ "identifier": ___, "description": ___ }`. The translation from model fields to JSON comes for free with the [JSON mapper](/toolbox#json-mapper-jackson) we’re using—we didn’t have to write any code for it.

This is good for a number of reasons:

- For TODOOSE as it is, this is good enough (YAGNI).
- It keeps things simple (KISS), and we have to write less code.
- It helps us not repeat ourselves (DRY), having to say that the `identifier` attribute in the model maps to the `"identifier"` field in the JSON response, and so forth.
- It follows the conventions of the JSON mapper (Convention Over Configuration).
- And so forth.

But it can also be bad:

- If we add new attributes to `Item` that aren’t supposed to be part of the JSON response (for example, `Item`s may now be password protected and there’s a new `password` attribute), then we must remember to change the controller to prevent that field from appearing on the JSON response (encapsulate what varies was violated).
- There’s a tight coupling between the model and the JSON response (loose coupling was violated).
- And so forth.

For this exercise you must modify the TODOOSE code base to introduce an explicit `View` abstraction:

1. Create a `com.jhuoose.todoose.views` package.
2. Create a `ItemView` class in that package. This class looks pretty much like the `Item` model, including the same attributes and getters and setters. It must also include a constructor that receives an `Item` and initializes the attributes accordingly.
3. Modify the `getAll()` action in the `ItemsController` so that it passes to `ctx.json()` a list of `ItemView`s instead of a list of `Item`s.

In your submission, show what changed in the code base. Then answer the following questions:

1. Why does this change solve the issue of adding a `password` attribute to the model and not having it accidentally appear in the JSON response?
2. Go over the list of principles on the [lecture notes](/lectures/2) (including all of SOLID, not just the **S** that we covered in lecture). What principles were previously followed and are now violated?
3. Go over the list of principles on the [lecture notes](/lectures/2) (including all of SOLID, not just the **S** that we covered in lecture). What principles were violated and are now followed?
4. If you had to choose, on which version of the code base would you prefer to work?

## Remove an Abstraction

<small>
**20 points**
</small>

The `ItemsController` is very slim (few lines of code), and you may argue that it confuses you when trying to make sense of TODOOSE. Since for now the application is so small, you may be right. Change the code base to inline the actions directly into the `Server` class. This is similar to how the action is written in the first example of the [Javalin webpage](https://javalin.io).

In your submission, show what changed in the code base. Then answer the following questions:

1. Go over the list of principles on the [lecture notes](/lectures/2) (including all of SOLID, not just the **S** that we covered in lecture). What principles were previously followed and are now violated?
2. Go over the list of principles on the [lecture notes](/lectures/2) (including all of SOLID, not just the **S** that we covered in lecture). What principles were violated and are now followed?
3. If you had to choose, on which version of the code base would you prefer to work?

# Submission

**<small>⚠️</small>  Your assignment is submitted only when you submit the form below.**

<form method="POST" action="https://roboose.herokuapp.com/roboose/assignments" markdown="1">
<fieldset markdown="1">

<legend>Assignment</legend>

<input type="hidden" name="assignment" value="2">

<label>
**GitHub Identifier**  
<input type="text" name="github" required pattern="[A-Za-z0-9][A-Za-z0-9-]*[A-Za-z0-9]">  
</label>
<small>
For example, [`jhu-oose-example-student`](https://github.com/jhu-oose-example-student).  
Don’t include an `@` sign at the beginning—this isn’t a [mention](https://help.github.com/en/articles/basic-writing-and-formatting-syntax#mentioning-people-and-teams).  
GitHub identifiers **do not** start with `2019-student-`.  
</small>

<label>
**Commit Identifier**  
<input type="text" name="commit" required pattern="[0-9a-f]{40}">  
</label>
<small>
For example, [`48092726db45fd4bcde21e3712ac2d8e4a094797`](https://github.com/jhu-oose/www.jhu-oose.com/commit/48092726db45fd4bcde21e3712ac2d8e4a094797).  
Graders will look at the code base as of this commit.  
You may find the commit identifier on the commits page at `https://github.com/jhu-oose/{{site.course}}-student-<identifier>/commits/master`. Usually you want the most recent commit.  
</small>

</fieldset>

<fieldset markdown="1">

<legend markdown="1">Anonymous Feedback on [Lecture 2](/lectures/2)</legend>

**Confidence**  
<label>
<input type="radio" name="feedback[lecture][confidence]" value="decreased" required>
The lecture **decreased** my confidence in the material that was covered.
</label>  
<label>
<input type="radio" name="feedback[lecture][confidence]" value="no-effect" required>
The lecture **didn’t affect** my confidence in the material that was covered.
</label>  
<label>
<input type="radio" name="feedback[lecture][confidence]" value="increased" required>
The lecture **increased** my confidence in the material that was covered.
</label>

**Relevance**  
<label>
<input type="radio" name="feedback[lecture][relevance]" value="irrelevant" required>
The lecture covered material that seemed **irrelevant**.
</label>  
<label>
<input type="radio" name="feedback[lecture][relevance]" value="cant-tell" required>
The lecture covered material that I **can’t tell** whether is relevant or not.
</label>  
<label>
<input type="radio" name="feedback[lecture][relevance]" value="relevant" required>
The lecture covered material that I can tell is **relevant**.
</label>

**Difficulty**  
<label>
<input type="radio" name="feedback[lecture][difficulty]" value="too-difficult" required>
The lecture was **too difficult** and I had trouble following.
</label>  
<label>
<input type="radio" name="feedback[lecture][difficulty]" value="right-level" required>
The lecture was **at the right level** of difficulty for me.
</label>  
<label>
<input type="radio" name="feedback[lecture][difficulty]" value="too-easy" required>
The lecture was **too easy** and I got bored.
</label>

**Pace**  
<label>
<input type="radio" name="feedback[lecture][pace]" value="too-fast" required>
The lecture was **too fast** and I had trouble following.
</label>  
<label>
<input type="radio" name="feedback[lecture][pace]" value="right-pace" required>
The lecture was **at the right pace** for me.
</label>  
<label>
<input type="radio" name="feedback[lecture][pace]" value="too-slow" required>
The lecture was **too slow** and I got bored.
</label>

<label for="feedback--lecture--liked">
**At Least One Specific Thing That You Liked**
</label>
<textarea name="feedback[lecture][liked]" id="feedback--lecture--liked" required></textarea>

<label for="feedback--lecture--improved">
**At Least One Specific Thing That You Think Should Be Improved**
</label>
<textarea name="feedback[lecture][improved]" id="feedback--lecture--improved" required></textarea>

</fieldset>

<fieldset markdown="1">

<legend markdown="1">Anonymous Feedback on [Assignment 2](/assignments/2)</legend>

<label>
**Approximate Number of Hours Spent**  
<input type="number" name="feedback[assignment][hours]" min="1" max="100" required>
</label>

**Confidence**  
<label>
<input type="radio" name="feedback[assignment][confidence]" value="decreased" required>
The assignment **decreased** my confidence in the material that was covered.
</label>  
<label>
<input type="radio" name="feedback[assignment][confidence]" value="no-effect" required>
The assignment **didn’t affect** my confidence in the material that was covered.
</label>  
<label>
<input type="radio" name="feedback[assignment][confidence]" value="increased" required>
The assignment **increased** my confidence in the material that was covered.
</label>

**Relevance**  
<label>
<input type="radio" name="feedback[assignment][relevance]" value="irrelevant" required>
The assignment covered material that seemed **irrelevant** or **didn’t connect well** with the lecture.
</label>  
<label>
<input type="radio" name="feedback[assignment][relevance]" value="cant-tell" required>
The assignment covered material that I **can’t tell** whether is relevant or not or whether it connects with the lecture or not.
</label>  
<label>
<input type="radio" name="feedback[assignment][relevance]" value="relevant" required>
The assignment covered material that I can tell is **relevant** and **connects well** with the lecture.
</label>

**Difficulty**  
<label>
<input type="radio" name="feedback[assignment][difficulty]" value="too-difficult" required>
The assignment was **too difficult** and I had trouble completing it.
</label>  
<label>
<input type="radio" name="feedback[assignment][difficulty]" value="right-level" required>
The assignment was **at the right level** of difficulty for me.
</label>  
<label>
<input type="radio" name="feedback[assignment][difficulty]" value="too-easy" required>
The assignment was **too easy** and I got bored.
</label>

**Load**  
<label>
<input type="radio" name="feedback[assignment][load]" value="too-much-work" required>
The assignment was **too much work** and I had trouble completing it.
</label>  
<label>
<input type="radio" name="feedback[assignment][load]" value="right-amount" required>
The assignment was **the right amount of work** for me.
</label>  
<label>
<input type="radio" name="feedback[assignment][load]" value="too-little-work" required>
The assignment was **too little work** and I got bored.
</label>

<label for="feedback--assignment--liked">
**At Least One Specific Thing That You Liked**
</label>
<textarea name="feedback[assignment][liked]" id="feedback--assignment--liked" required></textarea>

<label for="feedback--assignment--improved">
**At Least One Specific Thing That You Think Should Be Improved**
</label>
<textarea name="feedback[assignment][improved]" id="feedback--assignment--improved" required></textarea>

</fieldset>

**<small>⚠️</small>  Don’t submit this form multiple times.**

<button>Submit</button>

</form>

If you run into problems, send an email to <assignment-submission@jhu-oose.com>. Include the information about the submission: your GitHub Identifier and the Commit Identifier. Don’t include any information about the feedback—it’s anonymous.
