# Iteration 4: More Features

<small>
As you work on your project in this iteration, you must update the project board that you submitted as a [Roadmap](/iterations/0#roadmap) in Iteration 0 to keep track of your progress.
</small>

<small>
You may need to revise parts of the [Design](/iterations/1#design), and even parts of the [Project Proposal](/iterations/0#project-proposal) as you develop the application. Update the documents as required.
</small>

<small>
Submit the code base for of your application in the root directory of the `master` branch of your group’s repository at `https://github.com/jhu-oose/{{site.course}}-group-<identifier>`.
</small>

You must implement more features of your application toward making it usable. A feature is considered fully implemented only when you completed all the work related to it, including tests, documentation, deployment, and so forth. The specifics of what this entails depends a lot on the nature of your project, so you must work with your advisor early in the iteration to establish the goals.

For example, returning to our Yelp for restrooms from [Iteration 3](/iterations/3), this is the time to allow users to actually write the reviews (instead of relying on reviews hard-coded into the database for testing purposes), post pictures of the restrooms, and so forth. Some satellite features may be left for [Iteration 5](/iterations/5), for example, a social-network component to allow people to follow one another, and take their connections in account when pondering the credibility of restroom reviews, and so forth.
